p8105_hw1_hg2596.md, before:

Homework 1
================

# Problem 1

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.2 ──
    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.3.6      ✔ purrr   0.3.4 
    ## ✔ tibble  3.1.8      ✔ dplyr   1.0.10
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.2.0      ✔ stringr 1.4.1 
    ## ✔ readr   2.1.2      ✔ forcats 0.5.2 
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(dplyr)
```

# Installing and Describing Penguins Data

``` r
data("penguins",package = "palmerpenguins")
```

``` r
nrow(penguins)
```

    ## [1] 344

``` r
ncol(penguins)
```

    ## [1] 8

``` r
head(penguins)
```

    ## # A tibble: 6 × 8
    ##   species island    bill_length_mm bill_depth_mm flipper_l…¹ body_…² sex    year
    ##   <fct>   <fct>              <dbl>         <dbl>       <int>   <int> <fct> <int>
    ## 1 Adelie  Torgersen           39.1          18.7         181    3750 male   2007
    ## 2 Adelie  Torgersen           39.5          17.4         186    3800 fema…  2007
    ## 3 Adelie  Torgersen           40.3          18           195    3250 fema…  2007
    ## 4 Adelie  Torgersen           NA            NA            NA      NA <NA>   2007
    ## 5 Adelie  Torgersen           36.7          19.3         193    3450 fema…  2007
    ## 6 Adelie  Torgersen           39.3          20.6         190    3650 male   2007
    ## # … with abbreviated variable names ¹​flipper_length_mm, ²​body_mass_g

``` r
round(mean(pull(penguins,flipper_length_mm),na.rm = TRUE))
```

    ## [1] 201

In the dataset `penguins` there are **344 rows** and **8 columns**. Each
row represents a penguin’s species type, island location, bill length
(mm), bill depth (mm), flipper length (mm), body mass (g), sex (m/f) and
year. For this dataset the mean flipper length is **201 mm**.

# Creating a Scatterplot

``` r
myplot2 = 
  ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm, y = flipper_length_mm,col = species)) + geom_point() 


ggsave("myplot2.pdf",myplot2)
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

# Problem 2

# Creating a New Dataframe

``` r
third_df = tibble(
  norm = rnorm(10),
  logical = norm > 0, 
  vec_char = c("one","two","three","two","one","one","two","one","two","three"),
  vec_fac = factor (c("one","two","three","one","two","three","one","one","two","three"),
                    levels = c("one", "two", "three" ))
  
)
```

# Taking Means of Each Variable

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,norm))
```

    ## [1] -0.1993672

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,logical))
```

    ## [1] 0.4

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,vec_char))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(third_df, vec_char)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,vec_fac))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(third_df, vec_fac)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

Simply pulling the column from the dataset and getting the mean was
successful for the **normally distributed variable** and **logical
variable**.For the normally distributed variable it was able to take the
mean of that column because it contained all numeric. However, for the
logical variable it took a different approach because they are
characters, it gave a value for each character value for example,
labeling it a “0” or “1” : either it is there or it is not. Then, for
the mean it was able to give a value because it treated the values as
proportions.

Unlike the **vector variable** or a **factor variable** which R does not
try to give other numeric values to but just say’s “NA” because it can
not take the mean of character values.

Commit message:

Finished problem 2 by converting variables into numeric vaules and finding the means. Also explained why some variables were not able to convert.

p8105_hw1_hg2596.md, after:

Homework 1
================

# Problem 1

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.2 ──
    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.3.6      ✔ purrr   0.3.4 
    ## ✔ tibble  3.1.8      ✔ dplyr   1.0.10
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.2.0      ✔ stringr 1.4.1 
    ## ✔ readr   2.1.2      ✔ forcats 0.5.2 
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(dplyr)
```

# Installing and Describing Penguins Data

``` r
data("penguins",package = "palmerpenguins")
```

``` r
nrow(penguins)
```

    ## [1] 344

``` r
ncol(penguins)
```

    ## [1] 8

``` r
head(penguins)
```

    ## # A tibble: 6 × 8
    ##   species island    bill_length_mm bill_depth_mm flipper_l…¹ body_…² sex    year
    ##   <fct>   <fct>              <dbl>         <dbl>       <int>   <int> <fct> <int>
    ## 1 Adelie  Torgersen           39.1          18.7         181    3750 male   2007
    ## 2 Adelie  Torgersen           39.5          17.4         186    3800 fema…  2007
    ## 3 Adelie  Torgersen           40.3          18           195    3250 fema…  2007
    ## 4 Adelie  Torgersen           NA            NA            NA      NA <NA>   2007
    ## 5 Adelie  Torgersen           36.7          19.3         193    3450 fema…  2007
    ## 6 Adelie  Torgersen           39.3          20.6         190    3650 male   2007
    ## # … with abbreviated variable names ¹​flipper_length_mm, ²​body_mass_g

``` r
round(mean(pull(penguins,flipper_length_mm),na.rm = TRUE))
```

    ## [1] 201

In the dataset `penguins` there are **344 rows** and **8 columns**. Each
row represents a penguin’s species type, island location, bill length
(mm), bill depth (mm), flipper length (mm), body mass (g), sex (m/f) and
year. For this dataset the mean flipper length is **201 mm**.

# Creating a Scatterplot

``` r
myplot2 = 
  ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm, y = flipper_length_mm,col = species)) + geom_point() 


ggsave("myplot2.pdf",myplot2)
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

# Problem 2

# Creating a New Dataframe

``` r
third_df = tibble(
  norm = rnorm(10),
  logical = norm > 0, 
  vec_char = c("one","two","three","two","one","one","two","one","two","three"),
  vec_fac = factor (c("one","two","three","one","two","three","one","one","two","three"),
                    levels = c("one", "two", "three" ))
  
)
```

# Taking Means of Each Variable

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,norm))
```

    ## [1] -0.06172109

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,logical))
```

    ## [1] 0.5

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,vec_char))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(third_df, vec_char)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,vec_fac))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(third_df, vec_fac)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

Simply pulling the column from the dataset and getting the mean was
successful for the **normally distributed variable** and **logical
variable**.For the normally distributed variable it was able to take the
mean of that column because it contained all numeric. However, for the
logical variable it took a different approach because they are
characters, it gave a value for each character value for example,
labeling it a “0” or “1” : either it is there or it is not. Then, for
the mean it was able to give a value because it treated the values as
proportions.

Unlike the **vector variable** or a **factor variable** which R does not
try to give other numeric values to but just say’s “NA” because it can
not take the mean of character values.

# Converting variables

``` r
mean(as.numeric(pull(third_df,logical)))

mean(as.numeric(pull(third_df,vec_char)))

mean(as.numeric(pull(third_df,vec_fac)))
```

When we convert these variables into numeric values. The R code is able
to do it successfully for the **logical variable** and the **vector
variable**. The same method is used to explain what’s happening to the
logic variable, it is able to assign it numeric values. However, it can
not do that for character variable because it doesn’t know the
difference between the groups, unlike the vector which tells it how to
rank it.
