Homework 1
================
Hilina Giday
9/24/2022

# Problem 1

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.2 ──
    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.3.6      ✔ purrr   0.3.4 
    ## ✔ tibble  3.1.8      ✔ dplyr   1.0.10
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.2.0      ✔ stringr 1.4.1 
    ## ✔ readr   2.1.2      ✔ forcats 0.5.2 
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

# Installing and Describing Penguins Data

``` r
data("penguins",package = "palmerpenguins")
```

In the dataset penguins there are 344 rows and 8 columns. Each row
represents a penguin’s species type, island location, bill length (mm),
bill depth (mm), flipper length (mm), body mass (g), sex (m/f) and year.

The mean flipper length is 201 mm, while the maximum value for flipper
length is 231 mm and the minimum flipper length is 172 mm.

# Creating a Scatterplot

``` r
myplot2 = 
  ggplot(penguins, aes(x = bill_length_mm, y = flipper_length_mm,col = species)) + geom_point() 

ggsave("myplot2.pdf",myplot2)
```

    ## Saving 7 x 5 in image

    ## Warning: Removed 2 rows containing missing values (geom_point).

# Problem 2

# Creating a New Dataframe

``` r
third_df = tibble(
  norm = rnorm(10),
  logical = norm > 0, 
  vec_char = c("one","two","three","two","one","one","two","one","two","three"),
  vec_fac = factor (c("one","two","three","one","two","three","one","one","two","three"),
                    levels = c("one", "two", "three" ))
)
```

# Taking Means of Each Variable

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,norm))
```

    ## [1] 0.1837445

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,logical))
```

    ## [1] 0.8

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,vec_char))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(third_df, vec_char)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

``` r
mean(pull(third_df,vec_fac))
```

    ## Warning in mean.default(pull(third_df, vec_fac)): argument is not numeric or
    ## logical: returning NA

    ## [1] NA

Simply pulling the column from the dataset and getting the mean was
successful for the **normally distributed variable** and **logical
vector variable**.For the normally distributed values it was able to
take the mean of that column because they were all in numeric format.
However, for the logical vector column it took a different approach
because they were characters, because a mean can’t be taken of
characters, it labeled them either as “0” or “1”. Then, for the mean it
was able to give a value and this value can be interpreted as a
proportion.

Unlike the **character vector variable** or for the **factor vector
variable** which R does not label them as numeric values but just say’s
“NA” because it can not take the mean of character values.

# Converting variables into Numeric Values

``` r
mean(as.numeric(pull(third_df,logical)))

mean(as.numeric(pull(third_df,vec_char)))

mean(as.numeric(pull(third_df,vec_fac)))
```

When we code to convert these variables into numeric values, R is able
to do it successfully for the **logical vector variable** and the
**factor vector variable**. The same method is used to explain what’s
happening to the logic vector column, it is being assigned numeric
values and interpreted as a proportion.

For the **factor vector variable**, it was able to also assign numeric
values based on how we ranked the levels, unlike the **character vector
variable** which doesn’t have levels so R wasn’t able to provide numeric
values and therefore kept it character values and was not able to take
the mean.
